What is carried out during analysis modeling?
A. Developing use case models
B. Developing data flow and entity relationship diagrams
--------C. Developing static and dynamic models
D. Developing software architectures



What is a coordinator object?
A. A manager object
B. An object that makes decisions based on a state machine
----C. A decision-making object
D. An object that decides which entity object to interact with

What is a control object?
A. An object that depends on other objects
B. A object provides the overall coordination of the objects that realize one c
-----C. An object that controls other objects
D. An object that is controlled by other objects


Choose the best answer about UML
A. A graphical modeling language for describing object-oriented models
B. A graphical modeling method for describing object-oriented models
C. A graphical language for describing object-oriented models
---D. A standardized graphical language and notation for
describing object-oriented models maintained by OMG


What does the system context class diagram deçict
A. The entity classes in the system
B. How the system interfaces to other systems
-----C. The external classes that connect to the system
D. The context classes in the system

What can an activity diagram be used for in use case modning?
A. To depict the sequence of activities executed by all the une cieves in the system
B. To depict the sequence of external activities that the use cate teracts with
C. To depict the sequence of active objects in a use case
---D. To depict the activities in the main and alternative sequences of a use case


What is carried out during design modeling?
A. Developing use case models
B. Developing data flow and entity relationship diagrams
C. Developing static and dynamic models
---D. Developing software architectures

What is the correct definition of software modeling according to the Otect Modeling Group (OMG)
A. modeling is the designing of software applications before coding 
B. Software modeling is the process of building software modelis
---C. Software modeling is the process of building diagrams
D. Software modeling is an essential part of the software development proxima


What is the stereotype extension mechanism?
----A. It allows defining a new building block that is derived from an existing UML modeling element but tailored to the modeler's problem
B. It allows defining a new building block that is not based on existing UML modeling elements
C. It allows defining a new element that is derived from an existing UML modeling element but tailored to the modeler's problem
D. It allows defining a new element that is not based on existing UML modeling elements


What does a state machine diagram depict?
A. States and relationships
B. Events and transitions
C. States and objects
---D. States and state transitions

What is the COMET method?
A. A UML-based software modeling method
B. Software modeling and architectural design method
C. A Software development method of rational
---D. A UML-based software modeling and architectural design method


What is a state-dependent control object?
A. An object that depends on a state machine
B. An object that communicates with a state machine
C. An object that controls a state machine
---D. An object that executes a state machine


What is the generic form of an interaction diagram?
A. Depicts several object instances interacting with each other
B. Depicts one possible sequence of instances among object interactions
---C. Depicts all possible interactions among object instances
D. Depicts all object instances and their links to each other


What can an inclusion use case be used for?
A. To describe common sequences of interactions in several use cases, which can then be extracted
reused.
B. To describe a use case that calls other use cases
----C. To describe functionality that other use cases can use
D. To describe a use case that includes other use cases


Which of the following are object oriented concepts?
A. Modules and interfaces
B. Modules and information hiding
---C. Classes, information hiding, and inheritance
D. Concurrency and information hiding

What is an active object used to depict?
A. concurrent object
B. thread
C. task
---D. All above


Which method can be used to to model entity classes according to object-oriented modeling method?
A. Data dictionary
B. Entity relationship diagram
-----C. Class diagram in UML
D. Object diagram in UML

What do class structuring criteria help with?
---A. Structuring an application into classes
B. Defining the attributes of a class
C. Defining the associations of a class
D. Defining the operations of a class


What is inheritance?
A. A mechanism for inheriting characteristics from a parert
---B. A mechanism for sharing and reusing code between classes
C. A mechanism for sharing data between classes
D. A mechanism for hiding information between classes



What is the unified software development process (USDP/RUP)?
----A. A use case-driven software process that uses the UML notation
B. A software process that uses the UML notation
C. A use case-driven software process
D. An object-driven software process that uses the UML notation


What is information hiding in object-oriented design?
A. Hiding information so that it cannot be found
---B. Hiding a design decision that is considered likely to change
C. Hiding information to make it secure
D. Encapsulating data in a class



What does an interaction diagram depict?
A. The state and transitions inside a control object
B. Classes and their relationships
---C. Software objects and the sequence of their interactions
D. The external objects communicating with the system



What is a class?
A. An object instance
B. The implementation of the object
----C. A collection of objects with the same characteristics
D. A collection of objects with different characteristics



What are the main steps in the stateless dynamic interaction modeling approach?
A. Develop use case model, Determine objects needed to realize use case, Determine message communication sequence, Determine alternative sequences
--B. Determine objects needed to realize use case, Determine message communication sequence
C. Develop use case model, Determine message communication sequence, Determine alternative sequences
D. Develop use case diagram, Determine objects needed to realize use case, Determine message communication sequence, Determine alternative sequences


What is a passive object?
A. An object can have its own thread of control and can execute concurrently with other objects
B. An object has no thread of control and can execute concurrently with other objects
---C. An object has no thread of control and executes only when another object invokes one of its operations
D. Any object


What approach does the spiral model emphasize?
A. Phased software development
B. Throwaway prototyping
---C. Risk-driven development
D. Incremental development

What is the notation of the actor concept?
A. An oval
--B. A stick figure
C. A box
D. A dashed line

What is notation for a synchronous messages (from UML1.4)?
A. A sold line with an arrow with a sock arrowhead
B. A solid line with an arrow with a half arrowhead
--C. A dotted line with an arrow with a stick arrowhead
D. A dotted line with an arrow with a half arrowhead


What is an association class?
A. a class models attributes of an association relationship
B. A class models an many-to-many association relationship
---C. a class models an association between two or more classes. Its attributes are the attributes of the association
D. a association that models an association between two or more classes. Its attributes are the attributes of the association.


What is the evolutionary prototyping approach?
A. A form of incremental development in which the prototype is mapped to software architecture or user interfaces when the delivered system
----B. A form of software development in which the prototype evolves through several intermediate operational systems into the delivered system
C. Risk-driven development
D. A form of incremental development in which the prototype evolves through several intermediate operational systems into the delivered system


What phrases is UML abbreviated from?
---A. Unified Modeling Language
B. Uniform Model Language
C. Universal Modeling Linguistics
D. Unified Management Logic


What is a use case?
(a) A case study involving users
(b) A sequence of interactions between
the user and the system
----(c) A sequence of interactions between
the user and the objects in the
system
(d) A sequence of user inputs to the
system


What is carried out during requirements modeling?
A. Functional requirements of the system are described in terms of functions, inputs, and outputs.
---B. Functional requirements of the system are described in terms of actors and use cases.
C. Functional requirements of the system are described textually.
D. Functional requirements of the system are determined by interviewing users.
B. Functional requirements of the system are described in terms of actors and use cases.


What is the purpose of a stereotype in class structuring?
---A. To label a class according to its class structuring criterion
B. To identify the objects that belong to the same class
C. To distinguish between external objects and software objects
D. To identify the association between two classes


What is carried out during analysis modeling?
A. Developing use case models
B. Developing data flow and entity relationship diagrams
---C. Developing static and dynamic models
D. Developing software architecture